{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang2057{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset2 Symbol;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.10586}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 Unit 6: Understanding children\rquote s additional needs\par
1.1 Define the terms:\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 Biological\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Environment \par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 1.2 Analyse the impact of biological factors on children\rquote s development \par
1.3 Analyse the impact of environmental factors on children\rquote s development\par
Biological is the term we use when a person is born with something i.e. blue eyes. This is also know as something that the child\rquote s genetics will cause. Environmental is something that will influence the child or something that can change the appearance of the child. This can be illness, accidents or life experience. \par
Biological factors of a child\rquote s help can be broken into three parts, the first part is the dominate gene defect. This means that if a parent has a defective gene there's a 50% chance of passing it on to the child, this means that the child has an even chance of getting tuberous sclerosis, achondroplasia and huntington's. The next genetic defect is recessive genes, these are the cause for such illnesses as cystic fibrosis and sickle cell anemia. The possibility of the child getting a defect like this is only 25% chance of getting this due to the fact that it needs 2 recessive genes (one in the mother and one in the father) to get that 25% chance of passing it onto the child. The last gene is the chromosomal gene defect, this is when a child has something wrong with their chromosomes, this affects one in every 200 children and the most common chromosomal defect is down syndrome. This affects their development because this means that they will be behind of the rest of their class and could find it difficult to keep up with what they are doing. \par
As well as biological factors there are also environmental factors that can affect the child\rquote s development. The first being the parental capacity, this means that if a child isn\rquote t looking after in the correct way. The parents could be misusing substances and therefore cannot look after the child correctly. If the parent is neglecting the child of their basic needs then that leaves the child without any routine in their lives; this is also the same for domestic abuse as the children will be a witness to what is happening to their parents or carers and this can leave a lasting affect on them. In a domestic abuse the child will also get a lack of support from their parents as they will be too preoccupied. The child will also have a risk of physical injury if they are in a domestic abuse situation. If the parent had depression then they would be the lack of routine and the child\rquote s needs would not be put first. If the child lives in poor housing then the child could get asthma and a failure to thrive, this risk is increased if the house is dirty or damp.  \par
\par
Unit 6: Understanding children\rquote s additional needs\par
1.4 Describe factors which affect children\rquote s development in the:\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 Short term\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Long term\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 Short term factors that can affect development could be hospitalisation for something like a broken arm or an illness, this affects the development because this means that the child would have to miss some days of nursery or school, therefore putting them behind in their lessons. Another short term factors that will affect the child's development is being bullied, this affects the child because if they don\rquote t feel safe then they might be distracted from doing their school work and they may also have a change in behaviour that could stop them from doing their work. The third short term factors that will affect a child\rquote s development is not speaking english, this will affect them because if the child can\rquote t understand what the practitioner is saying them they can\rquote t carry out the task properly or they might do the task the wrong way and that means that they won\rquote t learn from it. The last short term factor that I have to talk about is a bereavement, a bereavement is when someone dies in a family, this can affect the child\rquote s development because they may miss some school days and when they come back they may be too upset to work to the best of their ability. \par
There are long term factors that could affect a child\rquote s development, the first one I am going to be talking about is genetic defects such as down's syndrome, if a child has a genetic defect then it could mean that they work at a much slower pace than the other children, therefore putting them behind on their development milestones. Autism is also a long term factor that could affect the child\rquote s development because they may need the extra help for school and they may not be able to concentrate on what they need to do. The next long term factor is ADHD, this affects children because they won\rquote t be able to concentrate on what they need to do and therefore can\rquote t keep up with the amount of work that the other children will need to do. If the child has poor speech and language then this would affect the child in the long term as they won\rquote t be able to communicate with their friends or teachers as well as the other students. If the child has a chronic illness when that means that the child will have to be in and out of hospital a lot and miss out on a learning that could benefit them in the long run and therefore putting them behind on their development milestones. \par
Early intervention is important so that the practitioners have a chance to research the child\rquote s disability and adapt their practice to better suit the child\rquote s needs. This can also allow the practitioner to get in touch with some outside agencies that could help the child throughout their development. \par
Unit 6: Understanding children\rquote s additional needs \par
2.1 Identify current legislation in relation to inclusive practice \par
The Equality Act 2010 brings together 116 pieces of legislation into one single act, this means that is can help improve legal frameworks that protect the rights of individuals and gives them the chance of equal opportunities. This means that the workers in a setting and the children will be treated with the same treatment as everyone else; this act supports inclusive practice because this covers all the way that a practitioner might discriminate against someone. The UNCRC 1989 stands for The United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child. This act protects the rights of children and safeguards children. This also allows the children to choose what religion they want to carry out and also teaches the children to be tolerant of other children and their culture. This legislation also gives the children to right to be happy and develop correctly.    \par
Unit 6:Understanding children\rquote s additional needs\par
2.2 Describe what is meant by:\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 Equality \par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Diversity \par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Inclusion \par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Discrimination \par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 Equality is when all children is treated equally no matter what religion they are or what culture they follow. Equality is important because the children will learn how to make sure that everyone is included and to be friends with someone no matter what. Diversity is when there\rquote s a group of people that have a different religion, culture, gender and race, this can also help young children to be more understanding of people\rquote s differences. \par
Inclusion is when the practitioner makes sure that they include all staff and children no matter what diversity may be. Discrimination is when a practitioner may exclude a person because they\rquote re different from them. This can also exclude someone from doing activities with the staff in the setting. \par
\par
Unit 6: Understanding children\rquote s additional needs\par
2.3 Explain types of discrimination.\par
There are different kinds of discrimination that could happen to someone within the setting. The first one being gender discrimination, this is one of the oldest kinds of discrimination and people still do it without even noticing, an example of this is someone taunting another person because of their gender and not letting them do something because they are different gender. Another type of discrimination is race, this is; again a very common type of discrimination and sadly people still think that it\rquote s okay to discriminate against someone because they are a different race from them. An example of this is racial profiling and this is when someone stereotypes what a certain race is like or what they do. \par
People also discriminate against people that have a lower social class as the people who are doing it may feel like they are above the people that they are doing it to and also feel like they don\rquote t work as hard as the lower class people. They could also make fun of them because they won't be able to afford some of the stuff that the higher social class practitioners. \par
Unit 6: Understanding children\rquote s additional needs\par
2.4 Discuss potential effects of discrimination on children. \par
There can be a lot of short term effects on the child in terms of discrimination. One of these being that the child will have low self esteem because they have been told over and over again that they can\rquote t do something because they are different.They could also feel intimidated because they feel like they can't do anything right and also that they can\rquote t do something due to their differences. The child can also become withdrawn from other people and scared to become friend with anyone because they think that they\rquote re not allowed to be friends with someone else. The children can begin to hate themselves and what they are because they are being treated differently. \par
The long term factors could be that the children have confidence issues and become anti-social because they don\rquote t believe that anyone would want to be their friend. They could also have poor mental health and begin to hate people because they treat them differently. The children could also try to commit suicide because they don\rquote t believe that they belong in the world and people don\rquote t like to be alive.  \par
Unit 6: Understanding children\rquote s additional needs\par
2.4 Discuss potential effects of discrimination on children. \par
There can be a lot of short term effects on the child in terms of discrimination. One of these being that the child will have low self esteem because they have been told over and over again that they can\rquote t do something because they are different.They could also feel intimidated because they feel like they can't do anything right and also that they can\rquote t do something due to their differences. The child can also become withdrawn from other people and scared to become friend with anyone because they think that they\rquote re not allowed to be friends with someone else. The children can begin to hate themselves and what they are because they are being treated differently. \par
The long term factors could be that the children have confidence issues and become anti-social because they don\rquote t believe that anyone would want to be their friend. They could also have poor mental health and begin to hate people because they treat them differently. The children could also try to commit suicide because they don\rquote t believe that they belong in the world and people don\rquote t like to be alive.      \par
Unit 6: Understanding children\rquote s additional needs \par
4.3 Evaluate benefits of working in partnership with others to meet children\rquote s additional needs. \par
There are many different benefits of working in partnership within the setting, one of them being that the children get to have the best care and also the practitioners will be able to make sure that they are having the best possible care. Another benefit of working in partnership with staff is that they get to follow the child\rquote s progress throughout every development milestone. There are also benefits to being in partnership in agencies, again there is the factor that they get to follow the children\rquote s progress and also get to choose if they need extra help or are happy of where they are and their development milestone. \par
If you are working in partnership with the child then you get to know them best and also get to know what they like to do during the group times, they can also tell you what they may not enjoy or feel that they are struggling with. The practitioner will also be able to under the child best and will soon be able to estimate what level they could be when they get older and give them something to work towards.\par
\par
}
 